# Myki users get refunds for touching on in Melbourne free tram zone.


> Herald Sun March 21, 2017.


TRAM passengers are swiping away money in Free Tram Zones with almost 800
people asking for refunds.

But the Public Transport Users Association says many passengers didn't know
they could get a refund for touching on in the Free Tram Zone and fear the
real number is much higher.

Almost $3000 has been clawed back from savvy passengers once they realised
their mistake.

PTUA President Tony Morton said anyone with accidentally touched on in the
Free Tram Zone was entitled to a refund and that policy should be pointed
out prominently.

"I guess the potential for confusion is always there and we don't always
send out clear messages on when to touch on and off," Mr Morton said.

"I know there is still some confusion among regular travellers let alone
visitors.

"There is now luminous signage advising people of the Free Tram Zone but
people can still miss it.

Almost $3000 has been clawed back from savvy passengers once they realised
their mistake. Picture: Supplied.

"The refund policy for accidentally touching on could be better pointed out
but I expect it's in lots of people interests not to offer too many refunds
if possible."
Since the introduction of the Free Tram Zone at the start of 2015, Public
Transport Victoria has processed 787 refunds totalling $2998 to passengers
who accidentally touched on.

PTV says the number of refunds has decreased each year as passengers have
become more familiar with the Free Tram Zone.

PTV spokesman Nicholas White said research shows that awareness of the Free
Tram Zone is very high among visitors with 72 per cent of domestic and 78
per cent of international visitors understanding the policy.

"We're pleased to see so many locals and visitors using Melbourne's iconic
trams in the Free Tram Zone to explore the city," Mr White said.

PTV says it is continuing to educate passengers about the Free Tram Zone
through driver announcements, signage at tram stops both within and outside
the zone, information at myki machines, customer service officers, and
special products for tourists at information centres and hotels.

The boundaries of the Free Tram Zone are Spring St, Flinders St and La Trobe
St.

Additionally, the tram routes along Victoria St, William St and Elizabeth St
that surround Victoria Market are also included, as well as the Docklands
area.


## Related content

* Myki price rise: Public transport users slugged extra from January 1.

* Scratch your own: the 80s train ticket that was a Melbourne fare evaders dream.

* Myki upgrade to slug taxpayers $50m.

www.heraldsun.com.au/news/victoria/myki-users-get-refunds-for-touching-on-in-melbourne-free-tram-zone/news-story/6b3d6304b45f7e43d4dc7e504e4381c5
